# CS-360--Mobile-Architect-Programming

### Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The Daily Weight Tracker application was designed to allow users to quickly and easily keep track of their day-to-day weight, track a goal weight, and view their historical weights. The goal of the app was to create an intuitive application without unnecessary bloat. Perform one simple task, logging daily weights. The user needs considered in the application are making users more aware of their weight fluctuations over time, monitoring their progress, and helping them stay motivated as even small incremental gains can be encouraging.  

### What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The application required a home screen that displayed their goal weight, a login screen, a grid screen that displayed historical weight data, and a screen where the user could opt in to receiving SMS notifications when their goal weight was reached. I opted to also include the user’s most recently logged weight alongside their goal weight, and a screen where the user could manage their account. My UI design was kept simple, emphasizing the focus of the application. By keeping a focused approach to every screen of the application, the user experience is both intuitive and enjoyable. 
### How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
I used an iterative approach to coding the application. Starting with the simplest features first and finalizing them before moving on to more complex systems. As each system was completed, I took time to better organize the code, to allow for keeping the code base more maintainable. Using this method of programming going forward will help keep applications easier to maintain and will make it easier for other developers to understand my intentions. 

### How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
For this application I used manual testing of each added feature. This was done in phases as the features were developed and were conducted before moving on to building out the next feature. This helped to ensure that each feature worked when it was created. As new features were introduced, I not only had to conduct testing for the new features but also all existing features to ensure nothing interacted in an unexpected manner. This helped to ensure that nothing unexpectedly broke. Without this testing, I would have realized that there were some features that did not work as expected such as user accounts. For example, testing helped me to realize that user accounts were not working correctly, and all data was being shared between all users no matter who was logged in at the time.  
### Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
Adhering to Android’s design guidelines required me to adapt in the way I normally design and layout code. Using linear layouts was a new concept to me, and something I had to learn before I could utilize them properly. My first iteration of the user interface did not properly use linear layouts, instead relying mostly on constraints to keep my UI elements in the appropriate place. This did cause me to run into issues with UI elements adjusting in size if even the smallest change was applied to any element or jumping off the screen if I tried moving one element. 
### In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
Having a broader understanding of databases from projects I have completed in the past, helped me to quickly and easily get the data storage setup and working in Project Three. This also helped me in making sure that the different elements that needed to pull information from the database was pulling the correct information that was needed, and that the information was properly formatted for display. 
